.TH QTOP "1" "qtop" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
\fBqtop\fR \- a top-like job viewer for OpenPBS and PBSPro
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBqtop\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.P
Available options:
.TP
\fB\-u\fR \fIusername\fR
show jobs for \fIusername\fR ("\fIall\fR" for all users, if
authorized; this is default for the root user)
.TP
\fB\-q\fR \fIqueue\fR
only show jobs in specific \fIqueue\fR
.TP
\fB\-s\fR \fIstate(s)\fR
only show jobs in specific non\-terminal \fIstate(s)\fR
.TP
\fB\-f\fR
show finished jobs
.TP
\fB\-F\fR
only show failed jobs (implies \fB\-f\fR)
.TP
\fB\-H\fR \fIhours\fR
history span for finished jobs [24]
.TP
\fB\-S\fR
include array subjobs
.TP
\fB\-R\fR \fIsecs\fR
set refresh period \fIsecs\fR [30]
.TP
\fB\-C\fR
start in monochrome mode
.TP
\fB\-V\fR
print version info and exit
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
print help
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBqtop\fR aims to help in monitoring and analyzing performance of jobs.
.P
By default, it will list all your active (i.e., not finished) jobs. To list
finished ones (by default, during the last 24 hours), use the \fB-f\fR switch.
With \fB-F\fR, only the failed jobs are listed. Evidently, this works only if
the server is configured to keep the job history.
.P
Use Arrow up/down, Page up/down, Home, and End to navigate the list.
.P
By default, the list is automatically refreshed every 30 seconds. Press "r" to
force a refresh.
.P
Press "q" to exit.
.P
For each job, mem, vmem (in units of GB), walltime, io, and # of CPU's
are listed (for queued jobs, the respective requested values are shown). In
addition, there are CPU and memory utilization (%) metrics, calculated as a
used/requested ratio.
.P
Press "Enter" to see a detailed report (similar to \fBqstat -f\fR) of a currently
highlighted job. "Enter" again or "Escape" to exit this mode.
.P
ID's of array jobs are typeset in bold. Press "space" to expand, showing
subjobs.
.P
Misbehaving jobs are marked in red. That means at least one of the following
"badness" criteria was triggered:
.P
\(bu
Memory utilization is below 50% with at least 2GB per node wasted;
.P
\(bu
CPU utilization is noticeably less than 100% (unless it's a single-processor,
I/O job with a respective "io" set);
.P
\(bu
(For finished jobs) walltime utilization is less than 50% with at least 2
hours unused.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Evgeny Stambulchik.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2021 Evgeny Stambulchik. License GPLv3+: GNU
GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBqstat\fR(1)
